CC0 1.0 通用（法律條款草稿_v.20160215）

此一法律工具的正式翻譯也具有其他語言的版本。

CREATIVE COMMONS不是法律事務所，亦不提供法律服務。散布本文件並不產生律師和客戶的關係。CREATIVE COMMONS之資訊乃是就現狀而提供。CREATIVE COMMONS對於使用本文件、或依本文件所提供的資訊或作品不負保證責任，並免責於因使用本文件、或依本文件所提供的資訊或作品所產生的損害。

目的之聲明

全球大多數司法管轄領域的法律，自動將專屬的著作權及其相關權利（定義如下）賦予原始創作及（或）資料庫（分別稱『著作』）之創作者及之後的權利人（個別及統稱『權利人』）。

某些權利人想要永久放棄其著作之權利，是為了將它貢獻到一個創意、文化及科學著作之共享領域（『本共享領域』）。在本共享領域中，公眾能安心地、無懼未來的侵權主張地、並以最大可能的自由形式及任何目的，包括但不限於商業目的，去修改、再利用、再散布這些著作及將該等著作收錄於其他著作中。這些權利人，會將該等著作貢獻到本共享領域中，是為了發揚自由文化的理想或進一步促進創意、文化及科學著作的產生、或部分藉由他人的使用及努力，來為自己贏得名聲或更廣泛地散布他們的著作。

為了這些及/或其他目的和動機，且未預期任何額外之對價或補償下，以CC0結合本著作之人（『宣告者』），在他是本著作的著作權及其相關權利的權利人的範圍內，且在其了解到他對本著作的著作權及其相關權利，及CC0對那些權利的意義及將產生的法律影響，自願選擇將CC0適用在本著作上，且公開地依據CC0的條款來散布本著作。

1. 著作權及其相關權利。本著作依據CC0提供利用，可能受到著作權及其相關或鄰接權利（『著作權及其相關權利』）的保護。著作權及其相關權利，包含但不限於下列權利：

i. 重製、改作、散布、表演、展示、傳達及翻譯本著作的權利；

ii. 保留予原始著作人及/或表演人之著作人格權；

iii. 於本著作中描繪、與某人的形象或肖像有關的形象權或隱私權；

iv. 關於保護本著作免於受不正競爭的權利，需受到以下第4(a)點的限制；

v. 保護擷取、散播、利用及再利用本著作中之資料的權利；

vi. 資料庫的權利（例如歐洲議會及理事會在1996年3月11日通過編號96/9/EC的《歐體資料庫法律保護指令》，及產生自任何國家對此指令的實施，包含任何該指令的修改或後續版本）；

vii. 其他遍及全球、基於相關法律或條約，及任何國家對該等法律或條約所實施之相似、相等或一致的權利。

2. 拋棄。在不悖於相關法律規定，且合於法律允許的最大範圍內，宣告者於此公開地、完全地、永久地、不可撤回地及無條件地拋棄及放棄其對於本著作所有的著作權、其相關權利及相關聯的權利主張及訴訟請求，不論現在已知或未知（包含現行及未來的訴訟主張），於本著作(i)在遍及全球的領域，(ii)在相關法律及條約規定的最長存續期間（包含未來的延長期間），(iii)在任何現行或未來的媒介及任何數量的重製品上，及(iv)為了任何目的，包括但不限於商業、廣告或促銷之目的（『拋棄』）。宣告者為權利之拋棄，是有利於公眾中的每一個人，且會損及自己繼承者之利益，他完全了解且希望這樣的拋棄永遠不會成為撤回、撤銷、取消、終止或任何其他法律或相當行為之客體，以免影響公眾基於本著作基於其明示的「目的之聲明」，對於本著作平和的享用，亦不會受到任何打擾。

3. 轉換為公眾授權。若因為任何原因，「拋棄」的任一部分依據相關法律，在法律上會被認定為無效或不生效力，則該宣告者在「目的之聲明」中所為之拋棄，應在被允許的最大範圍內被考量。此外，在「拋棄」被如此認定時，宣告者於此授與每位受影響者免權利金、不得移轉的、不得再授權的、非專屬的、不得撤回的，以及無條件的授權，來實施宣告者對本著作的著作權及其相關權利，(i)在遍及全球的領域，(ii)在相關法律及條約規定的最長存續期間（包含未來的延長期間），(iii)在任何現行或未來的媒介及任何數量的重製品上，及(iv)為了任何目的，包括但不限於商業、廣告或促銷的目的（『授權』）。該「授權」應被視為溯及自宣告者將CC0適用於本著作之日起生效。若因為任何原因使該「授權」的任一部分在相關法律下被認定為無效或不生效力，該無效部份不因而使「授權」其餘部分亦無效，且在這個情況下，宣告者於此聲明他將不會(i)行使任何他對本著作剩餘的著作權及其相關權利或(ii)提起任何與本著作有關的相關的權利或訴訟主張，在前述(i)(ii)任一情形，本處之聲明並不會與宣告者明示的「目的之聲明」相悖。

4. 限制及免除責任聲明。

a. 宣告者所擁有的商標權或專利權，不會因為本文件，而被拋棄、放棄、授權或受到其他影響。

b. 宣告者是以現狀提供本著作，且未聲明或提供關於本著作之任何保證，無論明示、默示、或是否為法律所規定，包括但不限於任何有關本著作權利之擔保、可商業性、是否符合某特定之目的、未侵害他人權利、不具有潛在或其他之缺陷、正確性、或不論能否被發現之現存或欠缺的錯誤，前述所有內容皆是在相關法律所允許的最大範圍內予以提供。

c. 宣告者免責於排除他人可能對本著作主張的權利或任何對本著作的使用，包含但不限於任何人對本著作的著作權及其相關權利。再者，宣告者免責於取得任何必要的同意、允許或其他權利以使用本著作。

d. 宣告者了解並認知到Creative Commons並非本文件之當事人，且對於CC0或利用本著作不負任何責任或義務。

另外的語言版本有: English, français, Nederlands, polski, suomeksi, 日本語. 請參閱FAQ來得到更多正式翻譯版本的資訊。

回到授權標章

----

CC0 1.0 Universal

Official translations of this legal tool are available in other languages.

CREATIVE COMMONS CORPORATION IS NOT A LAW FIRM AND DOES NOT PROVIDE LEGAL SERVICES. DISTRIBUTION OF THIS DOCUMENT DOES NOT CREATE AN ATTORNEY-CLIENT RELATIONSHIP. CREATIVE COMMONS PROVIDES THIS INFORMATION ON AN "AS-IS" BASIS. CREATIVE COMMONS MAKES NO WARRANTIES REGARDING THE USE OF THIS DOCUMENT OR THE INFORMATION OR WORKS PROVIDED HEREUNDER, AND DISCLAIMS LIABILITY FOR DAMAGES RESULTING FROM THE USE OF THIS DOCUMENT OR THE INFORMATION OR WORKS PROVIDED HEREUNDER.

Statement of Purpose

The laws of most jurisdictions throughout the world automatically confer exclusive Copyright and Related Rights (defined below) upon the creator and subsequent owner(s) (each and all, an "owner") of an original work of authorship and/or a database (each, a "Work").

Certain owners wish to permanently relinquish those rights to a Work for the purpose of contributing to a commons of creative, cultural and scientific works ("Commons") that the public can reliably and without fear of later claims of infringement build upon, modify, incorporate in other works, reuse and redistribute as freely as possible in any form whatsoever and for any purposes, including without limitation commercial purposes. These owners may contribute to the Commons to promote the ideal of a free culture and the further production of creative, cultural and scientific works, or to gain reputation or greater distribution for their Work in part through the use and efforts of others.

For these and/or other purposes and motivations, and without any expectation of additional consideration or compensation, the person associating CC0 with a Work (the "Affirmer"), to the extent that he or she is an owner of Copyright and Related Rights in the Work, voluntarily elects to apply CC0 to the Work and publicly distribute the Work under its terms, with knowledge of his or her Copyright and Related Rights in the Work and the meaning and intended legal effect of CC0 on those rights.

1. Copyright and Related Rights. A Work made available under CC0 may be protected by copyright and related or neighboring rights ("Copyright and Related Rights"). Copyright and Related Rights include, but are not limited to, the following:

i. the right to reproduce, adapt, distribute, perform, display, communicate, and translate a Work;

ii. moral rights retained by the original author(s) and/or performer(s);

iii. publicity and privacy rights pertaining to a person's image or likeness depicted in a Work;

iv. rights protecting against unfair competition in regards to a Work, subject to the limitations in paragraph 4(a), below;

v. rights protecting the extraction, dissemination, use and reuse of data in a Work;

vi. database rights (such as those arising under Directive 96/9/EC of the European Parliament and of the Council of 11 March 1996 on the legal protection of databases, and under any national implementation thereof, including any amended or successor version of such directive); and

vii. other similar, equivalent or corresponding rights throughout the world based on applicable law or treaty, and any national implementations thereof.

2. Waiver. To the greatest extent permitted by, but not in contravention of, applicable law, Affirmer hereby overtly, fully, permanently, irrevocably and unconditionally waives, abandons, and surrenders all of Affirmer's Copyright and Related Rights and associated claims and causes of action, whether now known or unknown (including existing as well as future claims and causes of action), in the Work (i) in all territories worldwide, (ii) for the maximum duration provided by applicable law or treaty (including future time extensions), (iii) in any current or future medium and for any number of copies, and (iv) for any purpose whatsoever, including without limitation commercial, advertising or promotional purposes (the "Waiver"). Affirmer makes the Waiver for the benefit of each member of the public at large and to the detriment of Affirmer's heirs and successors, fully intending that such Waiver shall not be subject to revocation, rescission, cancellation, termination, or any other legal or equitable action to disrupt the quiet enjoyment of the Work by the public as contemplated by Affirmer's express Statement of Purpose.

3. Public License Fallback. Should any part of the Waiver for any reason be judged legally invalid or ineffective under applicable law, then the Waiver shall be preserved to the maximum extent permitted taking into account Affirmer's express Statement of Purpose. In addition, to the extent the Waiver is so judged Affirmer hereby grants to each affected person a royalty-free, non transferable, non sublicensable, non exclusive, irrevocable and unconditional license to exercise Affirmer's Copyright and Related Rights in the Work (i) in all territories worldwide, (ii) for the maximum duration provided by applicable law or treaty (including future time extensions), (iii) in any current or future medium and for any number of copies, and (iv) for any purpose whatsoever, including without limitation commercial, advertising or promotional purposes (the "License"). The License shall be deemed effective as of the date CC0 was applied by Affirmer to the Work. Should any part of the License for any reason be judged legally invalid or ineffective under applicable law, such partial invalidity or ineffectiveness shall not invalidate the remainder of the License, and in such case Affirmer hereby affirms that he or she will not (i) exercise any of his or her remaining Copyright and Related Rights in the Work or (ii) assert any associated claims and causes of action with respect to the Work, in either case contrary to Affirmer's express Statement of Purpose.

4. Limitations and Disclaimers.

a. No trademark or patent rights held by Affirmer are waived, abandoned, surrendered, licensed or otherwise affected by this document.

b. Affirmer offers the Work as-is and makes no representations or warranties of any kind concerning the Work, express, implied, statutory or otherwise, including without limitation warranties of title, merchantability, fitness for a particular purpose, non infringement, or the absence of latent or other defects, accuracy, or the present or absence of errors, whether or not discoverable, all to the greatest extent permissible under applicable law.

c. Affirmer disclaims responsibility for clearing rights of other persons that may apply to the Work or any use thereof, including without limitation any person's Copyright and Related Rights in the Work. Further, Affirmer disclaims responsibility for obtaining any necessary consents, permissions or other rights required for any use of the Work.

d. Affirmer understands and acknowledges that Creative Commons is not a party to this document and has no duty or obligation with respect to this CC0 or use of the Work.

Additional languages available: français, Nederlands, polski, suomeksi, 日本語. Please read the FAQ for more information about official translations.

Back to Commons Deed

----
